Hi there.
This is De La Rue.
And welcome back.
Let's now extend our demo from the previous lecture where we were grouping a stream of elements and
we looked at the two methods to map on grouping by from the collectors class.
And both these methods were returning an instance of the collector interface which the collect method
was using in order to group the stream elements.
These methods were really interesting because they were helping us to group the elements of the collection
and we were doing it in a declarative way.
So before Java eight, we had to do it with imperative style of coding, which we know is cumbersome.
So these methods were helping us to do it in a very elegant way, in a declarative style.
So we looked at those two methods, and in this particular lecture we are just going to look at the
grouping by method.
So we are done with looking at the two map method.
So now the focus will be only on the grouping by and we are going to look at its overloaded version.
So we looked at the first version in the last lecture.
Now we are going to look at the second version and it will help us to generate more sophisticated maps.
So one of the things that we can do is we can generate multi level maps, so we can do multi level grouping,
which means that we can have map off maps.
So generally we have map with key value pairs.
Now with multi level grouping, the value can be another map.
So that's one thing that we will see.
But more importantly, we will also see that we can generate summaries of the values so we have the
key value pairs.
And for the value, if we want to summarize the list of values associated with the particular key,
then we can use the second version of the grouping by.
And so we are going to look at that also.
So that's the interesting part.
Let's look at what we had in the previous lecture.
So at the very end we looked at this, so we were grouping the stream of elements by ratings and we
have looked at the grouping by method and it was generating a map of double and a list of books.
Double is the rating and list of books are the list of books that fall under each of those ratings.
Right.
So this is what we have looked at and the grouping bias here.
So the thing is, if a particular rating has only a single book, then the value would be a list with
that single book.
Now, if there are multiple books that have the same rating, then those books will be accumulated into
that list.
So what it means is if we have multiple books with the same rating, then there is going to be a collision
of the keys.
And the collision resolution strategy in this case is to accumulate them into a list.
And that is being done in an implicit way.
Now, we also looked at the same logic using to map here.
So we accomplish the same thing using two map.
But with two map, we had to explicitly specify the collision resolution strategy.
If you recall, we had all of these expressions and this was cumbersome but with grouping by we did
not have to do that.
So it was taken care of implicitly.
And the default collision resolution strategy is to accumulate into a list.
So the thing is so that's the main difference with to map.
We do not have a default collision resolution strategy.
We have to explicitly specify it in this way.
We call it as a merger function.
It's called as a merger function.
And we have done it here.
Here it is.
Now, if you do not provide this kind of a collision resolution strategy and if there is a collision,
we have also seen that it would generate a one time exception called illegal state exception.
So if we are using to map and if we are expecting some kind of a collision to happen, then we need
to provide this.
Otherwise we will end up with an error.
So to map is good if we are generating simple key value pairs and you are not expecting any collisions,
but if you think there are going to be some collisions, then it is better to go with grouping by and
it is very simple implementation.
Now there are also overloaded versions of grouping by and if you want to change the default collision
resolution strategy, let's say if you want to accumulate into a set, then we can use the an overloaded
version of the grouping by.
So let's look at the overloaded versions here.
So this is the API of the collectors class and we can see the grouping by methods here.
So this is the first version which we have already seen.
It just takes a function here and they are calling it as classifier, but it is for identifying the
keys here.
So it will help us to classify the group of elements based on some key.
So that key is what is being identified via this function.
Then there are these two overloaded versions and this is what we are going to look at and we will also
look at this one.
Also, it's just a simple extension, but this one takes only two parameters.
This one is taking three parameters.
So in addition to the function here, the classifier.
Here.
There is another collector.
Just recall that grouping by here is returning a collector and the first parameter is a off type function
which identifies the key.
And the second parameter is another collector, and it is going to essentially collect the values that
are associated with the key.
So it's going to perform another round of collection on the stream elements.
Now here you can specify something like to set recall that other than to list.
We also have the two set method.
If you are going to pass to set here, then values will be accumulated into a set.
So that's something that we will look at.
Now similarly you have the key value pairs and we are saying that this collector will be applied on
the values.
So if you want to summarize those values, then you can use a certain collector for that.
Say, for example, we were grouping the stream of books by rating.
So for a particular rating, we will have certain books.
And if we want to get the average price of all of those books, then we can summarize it using a method
here called averaging.
If the sense the price is double, we can use averaging double.
But there are also other variants like averaging and averaging long.
So that's how you can summarize the list of values associated with the keys.
And there are also other methods like summing end, just like averaging.
We also have summing long and summing end and summing double to.
Then there is max by min by which can be used to find the maximum or the minima of the values.
Then there is also counting.
We will also look at counting.
So it will tell us the size of the list of values associated with the keys so we can use we can generate
those kinds of summaries for the values using this second version of the grouping by so they call it
as the downstream collector assets.
And these are all the different methods and you should take a look at them.
And in this demo we will also look at another method called this partitioning by partitioning by also
generates a map, but it only generates two mappings.
So it takes a predicate and based on the predicate, it generates two mappings.
And one of them, one of the mapping will have a key as the value true and all the values, all the
list of all the items associated with that particular boolean value.
So it can be the keys will be only true or false and it will be associated with certain values.
Those keys will be associated with certain values.
So that's the partitioning by.
So we are also going to look at partitioning by now.
So let's go ahead here.
And first thing is, let's go ahead and change this.
It's actually take the whole thing.
Now, let's call it.
Two.
So the first thing is let's change the default collision resolution strategy and let's collect it into
a set.
And we said that we need to use the overloaded version of this.
So here we will say to set.
And this would be a set.
So this is coming from the collectors class.
So there is a static import of this.
And here this would be two.
And this would be set.
Okay.
And we are simply printing the values here.
Now, just note that internally the first version of the grouping by uses this particular version,
but implicitly it would pass to list.
So that's the reason.
By default, it's going to get a list of books here.
So let me just run this.
Here it is.
So it's just printing the values and everything is fine here.
Now, let's say this one actually returns a hash map.
Now, let's say if we want a tree map, then the third version of the grouping by will be used.
Here is the third version.
This one and this third version just takes a supplier.
So we need to supply a tree map.
So we would say tree map new.
So that's the constructor reference.
So now if you see the values will be sorted by rating, here it is.
Now you can see that the different ratings are already in ascending order because we are using tree
map.
3.9.
4.1.
And so on, 4.3 and so on.
So that's how you would use a different collision resolution strategy.
Now let's focus on the summary part, on summarizing the values associated with keys, and let's say
we want to get the counts associated with each of the ratings.
So we are grouping by ratings.
And those ratings, each of those ratings have certain books that fall under that rating.
And we want to get a count of each of those books, list of books.
So let's take this.
Now, let's call it as a ratings.
Count map.
This part is just the same.
Now here, let's say collectors not counting.
And here counting would return a long.
So this is what we have.
And let's just print the map directly.
So the two string method on the map will be invoked.
So let's just say this.
It's just a random variable as it is.
Okay.
So let me just execute it.
And here it is.
And you can see that the count values.
So for the rating 4.5, there are two books for the rating, 4.9 there are four for books.
So that's how you would you do it?
And the counting returns a collector, which means that it can also be used directly with the collect
method itself.
Right.
Because the collect method also takes a collector.
And in fact, that's what is happening here.
The grouping by is returning a collector.
So this can be used outside of grouping by method also.
So let me just show you that.
So let's take this.
Let's say counting.
It's.
This, but.
So there are 13 books in the stream, so it can also be used outside of that.
So this is count.
Now let's summarize the values by using average.
So let's get the average of the price of all the books that are associated with a particular key.
So once again, let's take this part.
So we have to use averaging double.
And.
It would be based on price.
So we are using double because price is double get price method.
And here.
Would be double.
Let's call it as.
Price map.
What's it?
So here it is.
So you have the average for 4.9.
We had four bucks.
So this is the average of the price of those four books.
Now, similarly, there is also something double.
You can also do that.
And like I said, there are also other variants average into an averaging long also.
Next let's say we want to get the minimum price of all the books.
So let's take this once again.
This is slightly different in that it would return an optional so would be optional off book with the
lowest price.
Let's call it Men Price.
Let we copy this.
Here it is made by.
But obviously it needs a comparator.
So for that we can use a static method in the competitor interface called comparing.
It can we can use this comparing double and mint by would actually use that.
So comparing double key extractor is once again we get price.
Sid so like men by there is also a max by.
Here it is.
So this is a 4.8 and an optional.
So the book is embedded with an optional object.
And this is what and this is the book which has the lowest price.
And similarly for 4.9.
For 4.5, there are two books and for 4.9, there are four books and it would pick the one with the
lowest price.
So these are all the different summary methods that can be used counting averaging double or something,
double or min by or max by now.
There is also another method which can encapsulate all of these values.
So there is a single object that can be generated using one of the methods.
And let's also do that.
So let me just copy this.
Until this part.
It's called summarizing double because price is what we want to take and we want to generate the different
kinds of summaries on the price.
Summarizing double will generate this thing called summary double summary statistics.
Had it been summarizing and it would be end summary statistics or long summary statistics.
This needs to be removed here.
It's not generic.
So let's print it.
So here it is.
So for 4.8, it says double summary statistics and it is printing all the different summary values like
the sum men, average and Max.
Let's look at 44.9 here.
Here it is for 4.9.
The count is for some is 195.
So that's the sum of all the four books that fall under this rating, 4.9 men, average and max.
So Max price is 60.
Average is 48.75.
So that's how you would do it.
So this is the grouping by now.
Let's look at partitioning by.
So partitioning by let's take this.
Would still generate a map.
But it will take instead of grouping by here, we will have.
Partitioning by.
And.
Let's say it takes a predicate.
So let's say we want to partition the stream of elements into two groups, one which have a rating greater
than or equal to 4.5, and the other group has less than 4.5.
Return a boolean.
So the key value would be either true or false.
And here it will be.
Here it is.
So you have false here and the books list of books under false and you also have list of books for true
also.
Here it is.
It starts with true.
So you have only two mappings, one with true and one with false.
Now this is one version of partitioning by and there is also an overloaded version of partitioning by,
which takes a downstream collector in order to collect the values into something else, producing a
summary or generating a set or something like that.
So just like grouping by we also have an overloaded versioning version for partitioning by.
So that's with that and we can also accomplish the same thing using grouping by.
So you can have a method which would have a predicate which will use a predicate and would generate
true or false.
But it is said that this partitioning BI is slightly more efficient when it comes to generating such
kind of such kind of a mapping.
And another difference would be, let's say, if we increase this to 14.5.
So in this case, the true will have a value of empty because there are no books with that kind of a
rating.
So for false, we have all of the books in the stream because all of them are less than 14.5.
But we still have an mapping for true.
Now if you do that grouping by, you wouldn't have this kind of a mapping, you would have only one
mapping.
So that's another difference between them.
But partitioning by for this kind of a mapping is considered slightly more efficient.
So let me change it back.
Now, one final thing that I want to show is that here we are always having.
A list of book now if we want.
If we want a list of, let's say, for example, only the titles, we have a books list of books for
a particular rating, but instead of having it as a list of books.
What if we want a list of titles which are strings?
So for that, we can use another method called mapping, which would map those books into a into a string
and will accumulate into a list.
So let's do that.
So let me just copy this whole thing.
So this is the final one, which we are going to test here.
Grouping by buy rating, but we are using the overloaded version.
So there is this collectors dot.
Mapping.
This is what it is.
And the mapping would.
We would use the source so the book would be converted into.
Source for those books.
Let's actually get the title itself.
So.
We have the title.
We can use to list.
So after the mapping, there will be connected into a list.
Okay.
So this would be string here because title is a string.
And let's call it ratings.
Title map.
You name this and let's use a single.
Print.
That's it.
So now you have 4.8 and the title Java six for 4.9.
There are four titles here.
That's what we have.
So that's it.
That's how you would convert from the stream type into some other type.
So for that, you would use a mapping method which also returns a collector, which is what is needed
for the grouping by method for the second version of the grouping by method.
That's it.
Yeah.
And one final thing that I still did not show as the multi level grouping, which I mentioned earlier.
So let me just show you that also.
Okay.
So we have this groupings buy rating now within a particular rating let's say we want to group by the
source source can be either Amazon or Barnes and Noble.
So let's say if we want to do that, then we can.
Do a multilevel grouping.
Copy that.
Source like Amazon is stirring.
And within that group we have this so grouping by.
So let me just copy this.
So within this grouping by method, the second parameter would be something like this.
Grouping by.
And.
So this here we are grouping by source.
So it's going to be Amazon or Barnes and Noble.
And we want to group them into.
Most.
He said.
And let's just go ahead and print it.
Here it is, multilevel mapping 4.8 and Amazon.
Then let's look at 4.9.
For 4.5.
Here it is.
We have two books, one from Barnes and Noble, another from Amazon.
So this is a map with first, first level classification.
And within that we are having another map.
So that's how you would generate a multilevel map.
A multilevel grouping is done in that way.
So that's about it.
And so that's about the grouping by and we have looked at summary methods, how we can summarize the
values.
And we have also finally looked at how we can generate a multilevel map.
So that's a multilevel grouping.
And we also looked at the partitioning by method.
And to map is mainly useful if we want to generate a simple key value pairs where we are not expecting
any collision with the keys.
So that's it.
Thank you and happy coding.